Hi, everybody, and thank you for joining us.
Today we'll talk about how you can measure
and improve your acquisition efforts with App Analytics.
My name is Nick
and I'm the product manager for App Analytics
and I'm excited to share more about all the value
that App Analytics can bring
to your user acquisition strategy.
In this video, we'll start with an overview
of the data and tools available to you in App Store Connect.
Then we'll walk through the key metrics
that are important to monitor and understand.
We'll then talk about how evaluating
different acquisition sources can give you clues
about what's driving performance
and we'll talk about how to use peer group benchmarks
to put your performance into context
so you can understand what you should focus on next.
Finally, we'll talk about taking action,
where we'll show you how you can improve your results
using tools in App Store Connect.
Let's get started.
The App Store makes it easy
to distribute your apps and games across the world.
You can reach customers in 175 territories
on more than 1.5 billion devices and in over 40 languages
and this gives you a huge opportunity
to attract new users, engage your current users
and encourage monetization within your app.
In order to help you measure how well your app is doing,
App Store Connect includes three different tools;
App Analytics, Sales and Trends,
and Payments and Financial Reports.
Today we'll focus on App Analytics
and show you how you can use data
to improve your user acquisition strategy.
App Analytics provides you with insightful data
about your downloads, redownloads, proceeds and more
and this data enables you
to use many of the different features
that the App Store offers
including product page optimization,
custom product pages, and in-app events,
and allows you to find out which ones work the best for you.
App Analytics also provides you with helpful data
while respecting user privacy.
Data is aggregated across a minimum number of users
in order to provide you with insights
about your performance in a privacy friendly way.
To begin learning about how to use App Analytics,
let's start by walking you through key metrics
related to user acquisition.
When you first log into App Analytics
you'll be taken to an overview page
with a number of different metrics,
and the four metrics along the top
are the primary user acquisition metrics
and these are the metrics that we'll talk about most today.
First, let's walk through
what impressions and product page views are
so we can understand how to use them.
An impression represents anytime
someone sees your app icon on the App Store.
This includes when they see your app icon
on your product page, on the today games
or apps tabs or in search results.
A product page view represents
the number of times someone views your product page.
Keep in mind that because your product page
also includes your app icon,
any product page views are also counted as impressions.
In App Analytics
you can view how many impressions you've received each day
and view the data over time
to see how you're performing.
To see your product page views instead,
open the metrics drop down and select that metric.
App Analytics also has two variations
of the impressions and product page views metrics,
unique impressions and unique product page views.
To give you a better idea of what these metrics are,
we can use an example.
Let's say someone sees your app in the search results
and taps into your product page,
that would be two impressions
because your app icon was viewed twice,
one product page view and just one unique impression
because both impressions
were made by the same user that day.
Now that we understand unique impressions
and product page views, let's talk about conversion rate.
We define conversion rate as the percentage of people
who download your app after seeing it on the App Store,
and this is calculated by dividing your total downloads
by your unique impressions.
If you click on conversion rate from the overview page
you can view your data over time.
Conversion rate is one of the main areas
that you can improve using the tools in App Store Connect
and so we'll talk about how you can improve it
throughout the presentation.
Next, let's take a look at total downloads.
Total downloads include
both first-time downloads and redownloads.
On the App Store, first time downloads
represent the number of times
people tap the get or buy button,
and redownloads are the number of times
people redownload the app after deleting it
by tapping the cloud icon.
Please note that if a user's settings
are set to automatically download apps across their devices,
these auto downloads are not counted.
The redownloads number in App Analytics
only includes redownloads
made directly on the App Store itself.
If you click on total downloads from the overview page,
you can see how many people
have downloaded your app over time.
And if you want to break down your results
by first-time downloads versus redownloads,
you can select first-time downloads
or downloadable from the metric dropdown.
To recap this section,
by closely monitoring these four metrics
you can understand how many users you're acquiring
and how effectively you're acquiring them.
Next, let's dig a little deeper
to understand where your users are coming from.
App Analytics enables you to learn
about how people discover your app
including insights by territory, source type and page type.
Let's first look at how you can use territory information
to understand what parts of the world
your users are coming from.
On the overview page, you can scroll down
to view a list of which territories
are driving the most downloads for your app.
To view the full list, you can click see all
and see how many downloads we're getting across the world.
To view a different metric by territory,
you can open the metrics dropdown.
Let's look at conversion rate.
Here you can identify territories
where you may be able to improve your conversion efficiency.
If we scroll down to the bottom of this list,
we can see how this app has a low conversion rate
in China, Japan, and Korea.
To address this, the developer of this app
might review their product page
to make sure it's properly localized for these territories
and that people are able to understand the value of the app
in their respective language.
You can view territory performance
in App Analytics across many metrics,
enabling you to get a full understanding
of how well you're acquiring and engaging people
around the world.
Next, let's talk about source type.
You can view source data in app analytics to get more detail
about how people discovered your app.
The four most common ways are through App Store browse,
App Store search, app refer and web refer.
App Store browse refers to when someone finds your app
when browsing the App Store
on the today apps and games tabs.
So if you get featured or appear in the top charts
then you'll likely see a lot of people coming from browse.
Search refers to when someone finds and downloads your app
after performing a search on the App Store.
App refer is counted when someone discovers your app
inside another app on the App Store,
for example through an in-app advertisement.
And lastly, a web refer occurs
when people tap on a link on a website in Safari
and download your app from there,
such as through a web advertisement.
Keep in mind that if your app is discovered
through a browser other than Safari,
it will show up as an app refer for that browser
rather than a web refer.
And just like with territories
you can evaluate different metrics by source type
by clicking see all.
You can then look at how each source type
is performing over time for different metrics
and use this information
to refine and customize your user acquisition strategy
to fit your app's specific needs.
Next, let's talk about page type.
Page type refers to the kinds of pages
from which your users view and download your app.
The three most common page types
are the App Store product page;
the store sheet, which looks similar to your product page
but exists outside the App Store
and pops up from the bottom of the screen
from an external source, and this sheet
is also known as SKStoreProductViewController.
And lastly, no page.
When you see no page in the dashboard,
it's referring to when people download your app
directly from the today games or apps tabs
or from the search tab
without tapping into your product page.
As we'll see, by combining page type with source type
you can get valuable insights
about how people discover and download your app.
To dig into this, let's go to the metrics page
and look at your conversion rate.
By selecting page type from the dimension dropdown,
you can see what your conversion rate is
across these different page types.
With this app, you can see
that the product page is converting people best.
You can also filter this data for even more information.
For example, you can filter by app refer
to see which type of page converts people
who are coming from a different app.
And the reason why this is important
is because when you're running an ad campaign
you have a choice about whether you send your users
to the App Store product page or to the store sheet
using SKStoreProductViewController,
and the choice you make
may meaningfully impact your conversion,
so feel free to look at this data
to decide which method is best for your app.
You can also look at page type data
filtered by App Store search.
This lets you see what your conversion rate is
for people who downloaded your app
directly from the search tab
compared to people who viewed your product page
and then downloaded your app.
In this case, people are more likely to convert
after they viewed your product page.
By monitoring this data,
you can see how effective you are
at converting people from search
and whether any changes you make
lead to improvements in performance.
Overall, viewing your data by page type
can be a valuable way to get more clarity
on user conversion on the App Store
and help you measure your acquisition efforts
more effectively.
Now that we understand how to analyze our metrics
and sources, let's take a look at peer group benchmarks.
Peer group benchmarks help you put your app's performance
into context by comparing your data
to that of similar apps on the App Store.
To help you get an accurate comparison,
Apple places your app in a peer group
based on your App Store business model
like Free, Freemium or Paid;
your App Store category;
and the amount of App Store download volume you receive
which enables you to get specific comparisons for your app.
Let's look at how the Forest Explorer app
compares to other travel apps with the same business model
and similar levels of download volume.
To access your benchmark results
you can click the benchmarks tab
at the top of the App Analytics dashboard.
From this page, you can see how your app is performing
compared to its peers.
You can see information about your peer group at the top,
including which category and business model
your app is being compared to.
Since Forest Explorer is a travel app
with a Freemium business model,
the peer group benchmarks include data
from other apps with these characteristics.
You can view how your app's performance
compares to its peer group across metrics
including for App Store conversion rate,
proceeds per paying user, crash rate, and retention metrics.
Within each metric, you can see detail
about the group's 25th, 50th and 75th percentile values
as well as how your app compares to each percentile.
To add a little more context on what a percentile is,
a percentile represents what percentage of apps
in the peer group are performing below a certain level.
For example, 25% of apps in this peer group
have a day one retention rate below 13.4%,
50% of apps in this peer group
have a retention rate below 21.3%,
and 75% of apps have a retention rate below 27.4%.
You can see that this app's day one retention
is between the 50th and 75th percentiles
which means it's performing better than 50% of similar apps
but not as good as some of the most successful apps
in its peer group.
If you scan across metrics
you can see that this app is underperforming
on conversion rate and day seven retention.
Let's uncover more detail by clicking view trends.
In the trends view,
you can see how your app is performing
against its peer group over time.
For this app, you can see
that even though you're performing
below the 25th percentile,
your app's performance has been improving
compared to the benchmark.
If you wanna evaluate how your app is doing
against a different peer group,
you can customize which group you compare your app to
by clicking the dropdowns.
For example, you can select peer groups
with different levels of download volumes
and see which download volume group your app belongs to.
As a best practice,
consider selecting a more specific download volume grouping
if it's available to you
but please know that it may not be available in all cases
in order to maintain privacy.
If your app belongs to both a primary
and secondary App Store category,
you can also compare your performance to either one
or against apps from all categories combined.
You can use the compare to dropdown
to change which percentile you compare yourself against
and you can also adjust to the date range
to view shorter or longer periods of time.
Consider exploring the different options
to determine which comparison
might make the most sense for your app.
Next, let's see how you can use data
to take action on everything we've learned so far
to help improve your performance.
The App Store offers many tools to help you improve,
and today we'll focus on product page optimization,
custom product pages and in-app events.
Let's start with product page optimization.
With product page optimization,
you can test up to three alternative product pages
against your original product page assets
to see which one performs best.
Test setup is done in App Store Connect
and once your product page optimization test begins,
you can view your results by going to the acquisition tab
in App Analytics and selecting your individual test.
On this page, you can view details
about how each treatment is performing
compared to your original product page.
At the start of your test, you'll see indicators
that let you know the test is collecting data
and once enough data has been collected
the indicators will let you know
which treatments are performing better or worse
than the original product page.
You can scroll down the page to get more detail
about each treatment's performance,
including the number of impressions,
conversion rate, percent improvement,
and the level of confidence in the results.
We recommend waiting until you see at least 90% confidence
before making any decisions about the test
or applying any changes so you can be sure
that the changes you see are real
instead of just due to random chance.
Next, let's talk about custom product pages.
Custom product pages enable you
to create additional versions of your App Store product page
and drive specific audiences to each page using a unique URL
based on what you think might appeal to them.
This customization gives you an opportunity
to drive a significantly higher conversion rate
than what you'd get
by using the same product page for everyone.
You can easily view the performance
of your custom product pages on the acquisition tab as well.
By clicking on one of your product pages,
you can view a variety of metrics
including product page views,
total downloads and conversion rate.
You can also scroll down to view additional metrics
including average retention and sessions
to help you understand user engagement.
For even deeper insights,
you can go to the metrics tab and view the performance
of all of your product page views together in a single view.
You can choose different metrics
and see how each page is performing
so you can find out which pages are working the best
and you can also add additional filters
like territory or source type
to drill down into the results.
Lastly, let's talk about in-app events.
In-app events are a great way to help drive more acquisition
and engagement with your app.
You can use in-app events to promote app experiences
happening within your app or game
such as a game competition or new movie premiere,
and this can draw new and existing users into your app.
Once you run your first in-app event,
you'll start seeing event metrics
including event impressions,
app opens, reminders and page views.
You'll also see an in-app event section
appear on the acquisition tab.
By clicking on one of these events,
you'll be able to see key metrics
including event impressions,
total downloads, notification taps, and app opens,
which allows you to get a better understanding
of what types of actions people take
when they engage with your event.
You can click on these metrics,
for example, event impressions,
which will bring you to the metrics tab
and enable you to view even more data
about your event performance.
When analyzing your in-app events,
make sure to look at the in-app events section
of the metrics dropdown so you can take advantage
of all of the available data for this feature.
Before we end, let's take a moment
to recap what we've learned so far.
App Analytics provides you with exclusive
and insightful data about key metrics
like downloads and redownloads,
about the territories, sources
and page types your users came from,
and about the performance of App Store features
like product page optimization,
custom product pages, and in-app events
which are all designed to help you
make the most out of your opportunity on the App Store.
If you'd like to export the data
you see in the dashboard into your own analytics systems
look for the export button
available in the dashboard and app analytics.
And if you want even more information
on use cases, definitions, and additional features
please visit our App Store Connect Help guide
on the Apple Developer website.
Thank you.